---
title: "2023-03-07: the woes of motivation"
---
- today i completed the physics investigation and japanese listening test, and recieved my marks back for english.
- it's safe to say i still have a long way to go before i am proud of myself for my studies.
- i believe my detriment to the inability to be motivated.
- hence i have identified the issues of motivation and below will list ideas on how to improve it.
	- goal setting: i find it difficult to continue or to derive a fundamental "reason" to study.
		- thus i have determined i need to set both **short-term** and **long-term** goals to set proper motivation for myself.
		- the long-term aspect, i find no struggle in.
		- i want to get a good job, i want to get into a good university, i want to live a happy and fulfilling life.
		- but the short-term goal-setting is something i struggle in identifiying and creating.
		- here is a list of short-term goals i can refer back to in the future:
			- test scores, already applicable and ineffective for me.
			- improving oneself to be better than yesterday.
			- competition.
	- time management: the aspect of managing time i can do easy enough, however, when it comes to following a schedule, i fail. i need to increase dicsipline in this area.
	- reflection: furthermore, i should reflect on tests and other areas to identitfy areas of improvement. i find myself not reflecting and rushing to the doing stage.
- i hope i can refer back to todays daily taco to find a reason to derive my fundamental motivation from.

🌮 3