---
title: "2023-05-03: Website Update"
---

## this website and its future
- my notes is going to be reworked so that it makes better use of active recall. 
- what does this mean?
	- notes will, instead of individual lesson notes, be structured in a way so it is all in one page.
		- why?
			- because then I don't have to nest a billion files together to one "root" file, and makes navigation a lot easier.
			- however, this means sacrificing a lot of the branches of the tree graph, as all the lesson files make up a majority of the "branches."
			- but navigation is simply too complicated, and connecting orphan child to their parents is too much of a task to do.
			- i have no preview atm but the website will probably be archived somewhere.
	- notes will instead of simply a summary of what the teacher says, is going to incorporate questions.
		- it is up to the reader to find the answer to that question
		- or, if i feel generous and/or the answer is too complicated, i'd put the answer in a toggle right under the question.
			- *i think the current plan is that I write questions in class, and during lesson breaks/end of day I write down the answers, but this requires more structure and a lot more discipline, which I don't know if I have in me.
		- why?
			- summary of notes is simply too inefficient for me to continue doing. i feel so braindead summarising what the teacher has said because i do not remember what she said afterwards.
			- if i write them in a question | answer format, then it is very easy to import it into a flashcard builder like anki.
yeah thats it
the current pages will move to a separate repo, and will be ARCHIVED. new rebuilding will start to occur.