---
title: "T2W1L4: Properties of Matter"
tags:
  - AE
  - chemistry
---

- we need to consider solubility of substances
- heterogeneous mixture
  - consists of two or more phases e.g oil and water, sand and water
- homogenous mixture
  - solution (heterogeneous mixture is **NOT** a solution)
- decanting
- filtration
  - depends on size of particles
  - funnel will utilise gravity to filter out the mixture.
  - **residue:** material left on the filter paper (in our case sand)
    - the residue left will most likely not be pure
    - there will be water on the sand
      - distilled water will take out sodium chloride in the residue.
- evaporation
  - using evaporating basin (made of porcelain and has a particular shape), to evaporate the

## solubility

### solute, solvent and solution

- solute: substance that is dissolved
- residue: substance that is left that cannot be dissolved
- precipitate: substances that are formed in a reaction when two solutions form together.
- solvent is the thing solute is dissolved with.
- solution is the homogeneous mixture of solute dissolved in solvent.
  - process of forming solutions involves breaking the bonds and attractions
  - this requires energy which is an **endothermic** process

### ?

- ion-dipole attraction
  - attraction between an ion and a dipole dipole attracted molecule.
- attractions forming between the solvent and solute
  - so the bond is an **exothermic** process
- whether the solution forms depends on if the process requires too much energy to be **favourable**.
- dissolving can be endothermic or exothermic

### why substances dissolve

- **polarity of solvent matters**.
- highly polar solvent dissolves only substances that has some sort of charge.
- if its an ionic compound dissolved in water, ion-dipole attraction will occur.
- water is more polar than ethanol
  - ethanol cannot dissolve sodium chloride, as forces of attraction that is formed between ions and ethanol molecules is not strong enough to overcome ionic bonds between ions in sodium chloride.
- non-polar solvents
  - cyclohexane $C_{6}H_{12}$
  - benzene $C_{6}H_{6}$
  - these non-polar solvents can only dissolve non-polar substances
- water is the universal solvent
  - water is great at dissolving polar molecules substances and many ionic substances.
  - water can form a great range of intermolecular forces to stabilise solution:
    - dipole
    - hydrogen bonds
    - ion-dipole bonds
