---
title: "T2W1L4: Properties of Matter"
---
- we need to consider solubility of substances
- heterogeneous mixture
	- consists of two or more phases e.g oil and water, sand and water
- homogenous mixture
	- solution (heterogeneous mixture is **NOT** a solution)
- decanting
- filtration
	- depends on size of particles
	- funnel will utilise gravity to filter out the mixture.
	- **residue:** material left on the filter paper (in our case sand)
		- the residue left will most likely not be pure
		- there will be water on the sand
			- distilled water will take out sodium chloride in the residue.
- evaporation
	- using evaporating basin (made of porcelain and has a particular shape), to evaporate the

## solubility
### solute, solvent and solution
- solute: substance that is dissolved
- residue: substance that is left that cannot be dissolved
- precipitate: substances that are formed in a reaction when two solutions form together.
- solvent is the thing solute is dissolved with.
- solution is the homogeneous mixture of solute dissolved in solvent.
	- process of forming solutions involves breaking the bonds and attractions
	- this requires energy which is an **endothermic** process
### ?
- ion-dipole attraction
	- attraction between an ion and a dipole dipole attracted molecule.
- attractions forming between the solvent and solute
	- so the bond is an **exothermic** process
- whether the solution forms depends on if the process requires too much energy to be **favourable**.
- dissolving can be endothermic or exothermic
### why substances dissolve
- **polarity of solvent matters**.
- highly polar solvent dissolves only substances that has some sort of charge.
- if its an ionic compound dissolved in water, ion-dipole attraction will occur.
- 