---
title: 2023-09-24
tags:
  - daily
date: 2023-09-24
---
## holiday plan
- officially start of school holidays
- no MORE PLAYING !!!
- goals for this holidays is:
1. study and be prepared for exams
2. not be a fatass
3. not burn out

## 12 hours a day
- i have decided to study for 12 hours a day during the holidays (168 hours) in the next two weeks
- there will be 7 practice exams for each subject, 3 hours per exam, and an extra hour for consolidating information, creating, revising anki flashcards and whatnot.

## japalapeno and english
- these two subjects are a bit different, because there is 1. not enough practice exams/practice exams are a bit broken and 2. traditional practice exam and "question bank" isnt really helpful
- ill allocate the middle of the day to these two subjects, as no timed conditions should make it p easy to do and stuff (?)

## the schedule
- 6am: wake up, eat breakfast
	- after breakfast, just revise speaking questions until ~7am
- 7am: first practice exam
- ~10am: marking exam and revising relevant material.
- 11am: JAPANESE/ENGLISH
- ~1pm: lunch is around here, pause exam if necessary, but lunch usually takes up at most 0.5 hours. 
- ~3pm: JAPANESE/ENGLISH
- 4pm: second practice exam
- ~7pm: marking exam and revising relevant material.
- ~7pm: dinner should be around here (0.5 hours max)
- 8pm: preparing the shit for the next day; workout, shower, get ready for bed.
- 9pm: revise speaking questions and left over anki flashcards
- 10pm: sleep

## breaks
- how do you keep your sanity during this time? isnt it excessive to do three exams a day straight?
- you're right... which is why I have allocated 10 minutes in between each section (eg multiple choice, extended response, calc-free/calc-assumed) where I can walk around the house!

## distractions
- one large obstacle stands before me - how do I rid myself of distractions?
- i have identified two big distractions:
	- my pc
		- q.q maybe unplug it : /
	- my phone
		- will just uninstall every distractful app, and log out of youtube.