---
title: "2023-03-05: the ordinarily ordinary loop of studying"
tags:
  - daily
---

i am writing todays daily taco midday, after i've completed some of my homework for today.

i find studying boring, and uneventful. those factors may be considered when addressing my inefficiency to study. whatever, its something only studying can solve (ironic right)

i want to talk about the listening aspect of japanese, and what i thin makes up the fundamentals of listening. much like how japanese itself is split into reading, writing, listening and speaking (and a 5th vocabulary), i think listening itself is split into:

- macro
  - this is essentially how much you can comprehend what the reader is saying.
  - includes grammar points and basic vocabulary.
  - i would recognise this to be essential to be good at listening, if you can't comprehend what they're saying, then it is impossible to achieve a good listening mark.
- micro
  - the ability to notice small nuances in the speaker, e.g. totemo, sukoshi, tai. picking up the small details is essential to achieve a top mark.
- speed
  - how fast you can write down and translate what the speaker is saying.
  - this skill isn't that essential, but everyone needs to at some degree have a listening speed equal or greater than the reading speed of the speaker.
  - of course, this just takes practice.
- memory
  - how long the information the speaker presents sticks in your brain.

thats it, now ill work on my speaking. surely that will have some overlaps with my listening skills, right?

🌮 2
