---
title: "T1W8L1: the adventure of the speckled band"
---

- context of production: the text is produced in the victorian era.
- british was the most powerful empire, and britain was heavily colonising the east. majority (more than three quarters) of the population were working class. there was a distinction between aristocracy and the working class. at that time britain was more powerful than the us.
- victorian ideal female was a virgin, good housewives, domesticated, and abstained till marriage.
	- a woman during that time is seen as a beckoning figure to the male figure in the story.
		- representation of a woman at that time was demonstrated
			- her veils
- everyone valued their individual status in society.
	- a lot cared about perceived reality in terms of wealth.
	- appearance of rich is more important the actuality of wealth.
	- class is very important in the victorian society.
- gender
	- male figures are seen as more dominant and more powerful int he family than the women of the family.
- definitely a nation ruled by men, ironic because the queen is not.
- science is increasing, and religion is getting increasingly opposed. although a standard victorian era person was still very religious.
- british empire dominated the globe around that time. a lot of nation were part of british rule. 
	- this ever increasing industrialisation at that time, there was an impending globalisation, in which foreign things are inevitably going to be introduced into nations.
	- e.g. coffee from other countries, and spices from other countries. the british people were quite suspicious of those imported goods. considered "sinister" or "evil".
		- this is also demonstrated in the story. those things outside of british culture is depicted as sinister.
- values of victorian society
	- hard work
	- social standards and appearance (wealth and class)
	- females who conformed to social expectation
	- modesty
	- nationalism - british empire loyalty and culture
- attitudes on victorian society
	- anyone who does not work hard is considered "lazy" is rejected and shameful. the citizens  in a victorian society may show disdain towards those who do things the lazy way.
	- the head of the roylott family's possesses a lustful attitude towards social status, and is willing to do anything (to the extent of murdering his daughters) to increase his own social status.
	- victorian society valued females who are seen contemporarily as "doormats".
		- those who allow others to step over them.
		- the attitude towards this is females lacked the intellect to make their own choices. women needed to be controlled by a male.