---
title: "T1W9L4: representation and V&A"
---

USE METALANGUAGE

- representations
  - victorian england
    - role of women in victorian england
      - women are portrayed as victims of abuse.
      - evidenced by helen stoner, who is abused by her father.
        - due to the characterisation of helen stoner, who is portrayed as a woman with limited social status, juxtaposes the superior nature of her father's social status and gender (already wealthy and man) prevents her from escaping the abuse.
    - wealth
      - Roylott family and the Stoner family
      - Roylott is a high class, wealthier family, and as a result the author represented those family members through the characterisation of Dr Roylott, who is often described with visual imagery as a stern man. the importance of wealth in victorian england is constructed through the juxtaposiiton of dr roylott and his daughter, helen stoner - who is part of the middle class.
    - narrative conventions:
      - settings
        -
      - characterisation
      - plot
      - POV
    - language features
  - aristocracy
  - 'the exotic'
    - the exotic is seen as forbidden and in a way the text is a premonition against it.
    - e.g. the text constructs foreign things such as snakes or animals from other countries as dangerous and death causing.
    -
- values and attitudes
  - sherlock holmes
  - dr roylott
  - society
    - at the time of production
      - the ideal victorian women are seen to be
        - docile, friendly, hard to get, modest and respectable.
    - contemporary views.
      - the standard for the ideal women has changed in the contemporary context, where the ideal women is seen to be more flirtatious,
