---
title: "T2W1L4: composing advice"
tags:
  - english
  - AE
---

- purpose and structure:
  - if you are writing a memoir, consider whether you might start in the present and use the device of flashback, or begin your text in the past and flash forward.
  - for persuasive texts, think about the cause / effect or or problem / solution structure. consider concluding with a call to action.
  - in a narrative, consider how you might manipulate the basic structure of exposition, rising action, suspense, climax, resolution.
- audience
  - be aware of your audience. for example if you are writing a short detective piece for a middle years audience, you might focus on the mystery of the crime and adventure, rather than the forensic science of a story for older readers. you might also choose a first person narrator, who leads a band of ill-fitting friends, rather than a jaded detective, struggling with the pressure and brutality of his/her job.
- persuasive text

1. attention grabber
   - 'hook' the reader's attention eg rhetorical questions
     - anecdote / humour
2. establish the need:
   - (also establish audience)
   - identify the need or show audience the problem.
     - facts & statistics
     - credibility (why should audience listen to you)
3. satisfy the need
   - outline your solution to the problem
     - facts
     - opinion
4. visualise
   - the audience needs to see a future that you are proposing
5. call of action
   - leave the audience

- how to paragraph

  - paragraphing with purpose
  - there are three times when you should start a new paragraph in narrative writing

  1.  every time you change time or location, a new paragraph is needed.
  2.  you start a new topic. from describing a setting to representing the feelings of a new character. this would require a new paragraph
  3.  when a new character speaks.

- swoosh narrative
  - incident -> backfill -> rising action -> climatic resolution

practice prompt:
[in a text type of your choice, compose a text inspired by a national Australian issue.]
persuasive: australia day should not be celebrated
narrative: in the point of the view of the land, the aboriginals being evicted from the land

[compose a text type of your choice that uses stylistic features or language features to convey an event or issue]
