---
title: "2023-05-03: Website Update"
---

## this website and its future
- my notes is going to be reworked so that it makes better use of active recall. 
- what does this mean?
	- notes will, instead of individual lesson notes, be structured in a way so it is all in one page.
		- why?
			- because then I don't have to nest a billion files together to one "root" file, and makes navigation a lot easier.
			- however, this means sacrificing a lot of the branches of the tree graph, as all the lesson files make up a majority of the "branches."
			- but navigation is simply too complicated, and connecting orphan child to their parents is too much of a task to do.
			- i have no preview atm but the website will probably be archived somewhere.
	- notes will instead of simply a summary of what the teacher says, is going to incorporate questions.
		- it is up to the reader to find the answer to that question
		- or, if i feel generous and/or the answer is too complicated, i'd put the answer in a toggle right under the question.
			- *i think the current plan is that I write questions in class, and during lesson breaks/end of day I write down the answers, but this requires more structure and a lot more discipline, which I don't know if I have in me.
		- why?
			- summary of notes is simply too inefficient for me to continue doing. i feel so braindead summarising what the teacher has said because i do not remember what she said afterwards.
			- if i write them in a question | answer format, then it is very easy to import it into a flashcard builder like anki.
yeah thats it
the current pages will move to a separate repo, and will be ARCHIVED. new rebuilding will start to occur.

vvvv thing we did in advo (might be useful idk)
## thriving minds #3 study planning
### study schedule
#### benefits of study planning
- why is it beneficial?
	- help use time wisely
	- you can break it down into manageable parts
		- what is this called?
			- chunking
	- break larger tasks into smaller tasks
- **using a diary effectively** and **sticking to a study schedule** = good
#### how to make a study schedule
- youtube video: making a study plan by atomi
	- allocate 8 weeks before an exam to prepare.
	- interleaving effect
		- what is this?
			- varying types of content we practice in a study session helps us learn better.
			- mix up topics !!!!!
				- ie mix up all maths topics
	- dont focus too much on ONE exam
		- study plan is **key!**
		- TAKE ADEQUATE BREAKS (fake news)
- breking down our study plan
	- incorporates enough time for each subjects
	- 8 study sessions every 2 weeks, across all subjects -> 4 sessions for reach subject per week
	- what to do 7-8 weeks before
		- familiar with syllabus content
			- have complete set of syllabus note
		- revision
			- when do revision? (5-6 weeks before)
				- break down topics
				- use recall practice (ANKI!!?!?? FLASHCARDS??? TEXTBOOK QUESTIONS)
		- 3 weeks: practice practice practice practice practice.
			- short answer and exam style questions.
		- 1-2 weeks before: PAST PAPERS (WITH TIMERS!!! (WHY? : REALISTIC EXAM CONDITIONS))
#### how to motivate yourself
- https://www.vu.edu.au/about-vu/news-events/study-space/how-to-find-the-motivation-to-study
#### DIY time to create your own