---
title: "T1W7L3"
---
#ae #specialist #vectors

## alternate method (continued from last lesson)
measure each angle anti-clockwise from the east.
- the advantages of this is that you don't have to account for positives and negatives.
## unit vector
- given a vector $v$, the unit vector in the direction of $v$ has magnitude 1.
- the unit vector of $v$ points in the same direction of $v$ but has a magnitude of 1.
- the unit vector of $v$ is $\frac{1}{|v|}v$
- ### notation
- for vector $v$ of magnitude $|v|$,
- $\vec{\hat{v}}=\frac{1}{|v|}v$
- ### why?
- if we have a bunch of vectors in same direction, we can represent the multiple vectors without having to state it's direction, and express those vectors as a scaled of $v$.
## vector equations
- vector questions can involve setting up equations and solving them.
- remember the two vectors are equal if and only if magnitude AND direction are equal.
- two vectors in component form are equal if and only if their components are equal.
- $ai+bj=ci+dj$ if and only if $a=c$ and $b=d$
- this means that solving equations with vectors in component form usually involves equating components.
### typical question
- airports A and B are such that $\vec{AB}=(600i+200j)km$. An aircraft is flown directly from A to B. The aircraft can maintain a steady speed of 390km/h in still air. There isa wind blowing with velocity (30i-20j) km/h.
- Find in the form ai + bj, the velocity vector the pilot should set so that this velocity, together with the wind, causes the lane to travel directly from A to B.
#### when drawing vectors
- when drawing vectors, don't miss velocity and displacement vectors, make the velocity smaller than the direction (this is crucial in the way you set out the experiment.)
- $\lambda$ to show that it is scaled.
- $ai+bj+30i-20j=\lambda 600i+\lambda 200j$
- $a+30=\lambda 600$ and $b-20= \lambda 200$
- we cant solve it with 3 variables in 2 equations
	- it most likely a calculate assumed, so use CAS to solve :D 
	- $a+30=\lambda 600$
	- $b-20= \lambda 200$
	-  $a^2 + b^2 = 390^2$