---
title: "T2W2L1: Circle Geometry"
tags:
  - AE
  - specialist
---

Chapter 7: Circle Geometry

- in this chapter there will be a lot of geometric proofs.

## geometric proofs

- focus is on **euclidean geometry**
- assumed to know
  - angle sum theorems for triangles & quadrilaterals.
  - properties of intersecting lines (congruence of vertically opposite angles).
  - relationships involving angles in parallel lines with a transversal (corresponding, alternate interior etc etc.)
  - isosceles triangle theorem (angles opposite congruent sides in a triangle are themselves congruent).
  - triangle congruence and similarity 'tests' (SSS, SAS, etc)

## circles

- a circle is the set of all points at a given distance r from a given point $0$ called the centre.
- two points on a circle defines two arcs:
  - if the two points are not **diametrically opposite** each other, then there exists a smaller and bigger arc called the
    - \*\*minor arc
    - major arc\*\*
  - if it is diametrically opposite each other, then there exists two semi circles.
  - points drawn from the centre to the edges of an arc is called a **sector**.
    - **minor sector, major sector**
  - if you join the circle with a straight line (called a **chord**), it is called a **segment**.
- **subtending**: the angle constructed by the arc.
  - subtending does not have to occur only in a sector, a minor arc AB can subtend the angle ACB at the 'circumference' of the circle

## circle theorems

### 1. an angle at the centre is twice the angle of the circumference

- prove that $\angle{AOC}=2\times\angle{ABC}$
- proof:
  - $OA=OB$ (radii)
  - $\therefore\triangle AOB$ is isosceles.
  - $\angle{OAB}=\angle{OBA}=x\degree$ ($\triangle{AOB}$ is isosceles)
  - $\angle{AOD}=2x\degree$ (exterior angle is sum of remote interior angles.)
  - theorem: in a triangle, an exterior angle is the sum of the 2 remote interior angles.
    - c = 180 [sum of a and b]
    - c = 180 - [exterior angle]

### 2. angles in a semicircle are right angles

- refer to edwards note :D

### 3. angles in the same segment are equal

- uh
- a cyclic quadrilateral is a quadrilateral whose vertices all line on the same circle

### 4. opposite angles of a cyclical quadrilateral are supplementary
