---
title: T1W6L3
tags:
  - AE
  - chemistry
---

## electronegativity revision

- $^{\delta+}H:\to F^{\delta-}$
  - bond polar? yes
  - molecule polar? yes
- $^{\delta-}O = C^{\delta+} = O^{\delta-}$
  - molecular non-polar
- $^{\delta+}H - S^{\delta-} - H^{\delta+}$ (pretend this is non symmetrical in the shape of / \\)
  > what is going on?! study in your own time please future thomas

## ionisation energy

- required to remove an electron.
- there is an attraction between electron and nucleus.
- there could be multiple ionisation energy, first second third blah blah blah
- ### first ionisation energy

  - the first ionisation is the energy required to remove one mole of electrons from one mole of gaseous atoms.
  - for unknown elements for unknown element M, the equation goes as follows: $$M(g)\to M^+(g)+e^-$$
  - ionisation energy is a measurement to the reactivity of metals.
  - when metals react they lose electrons (removed) which takes ionisation energy.
  - G1 only needs the first ionisation energy, for group 2 you need first & second ionisation energy.
  - trends of first ionisation energies of the group 2 elements.
    - ionisation energy has a general decrease as you move down through groups of elements.
  - trends of first ionisation energy of the period 3 elements
    - nuclear attraction increases
    - atomic radius decreases
    - atomic number (proton number) increases
    - there is a general increase in the first ionisation energies across period 3.
    - shielding does not change significantly.
    - effective nuclear charge therefore increases.
    - the greater attraction between nucleus and the outermost electrons means more energy is required to remove an electron.
  - EXTENSION: why sulfur and aluminium has lower first ionisation energies.

    - Mg: 2,8,2
    - Al: 2,8,3
    - 1s22s22p63s2
    - 1s22s22p63s23p1

    - Phosphor
      - 15-10 = 5
      - 2,8,5
      - 1s22s22p63s23p3
    - Sulfur
      - 16 - 10 = 6
      - 2,8,6
      - 1s22s22p63s23p4
