---
title: "T1W7L1: bonding & structure"
---

## network

giant lattice

- covalent network
- metallic network
- ionic network (lattice)

## bonding and structure

- giant metallic lattice structure (Na, Mg, Al)
- #### physical properties of metal
  - electrical conductivity: all metals can conduct electricity
  - solid at room temperature (except mercury)
  - most of metals are grey solids.
    - describe metal using grey solids on observation (except gold - yellow, and salmon pink for copper)
    - do not describe metals with silver. silver is an element, not a colour description.
- giant molecular structure (C and Si)
  - carbon is bonded in a huge molecular network.
    - carbon can have allotropes: - diamond: all bonds are covalent and strong, so diamond has the highest melting point on the periodic table, as well as the hardest mineral.
      - graphite
      - buckminsterfullerene (bucky balls)
- simple covalent molecules (P4, S8, Cl2)

## metallic bonding

- electron becomes delocalised.
- each sodium atom has electrons delocalised.
- definition of metallic: electrostatic forces of attraction between cations of metal and sea of delocalised electrons.
- physical properties:
  - high melting point.
  - high boiling point.
  - good electrical conductivity (can be explained by a number of the presence of delocalise electrons)
  - malleable (you can reduce the metals in to sheets)
  - ductile (able to be drawn out in a long thin wire without breaking it.)
- melting point. sodium does not have high melting point, however magnesium and aluminium is high.
- aluminium has higher electrostatic forces of electron, because 3 electrons could be delocalised in aluminium compared to magnesium, which means stronger metallic bonds exist.
- - more delocalised electrons (3e power atom)
- - higher change on cation (+3)
- - stronger metallic bond.
- the metal does not break and is extremely malleable because it is cations in a sea of delocalised electrons, and it instead slides.
- when force is applied, the object does not shatter, and the existence of cations and electrons slide against the other.

### comparing ionic compounds to ???

- ions of the same charge next to each other repels
- fell asleep

## electrical conductivity

- for period 3

  - sodium is a good conductor.
  - magnesium has more delocalised electrons, and is a slightly better conductor.
  - aluminium is a great conductor, as it has the most delocalised electrons.
  - silicon to argon cannot conduct electricity.
    - silicon is a medium to hold conductors in semi conductors.

- did the worksheet on the onenote :)
