---
title: "T2W2L2: halides & precipitates & solubility"
---

## halides

- halide ions are formed from the group VII elements, the halogens. Halides are detected using silver nitrate solution
  - Cl -, Br -, I -
  - colourless ions in solution.
- HCl + AgNO3 -> AgCl + HNO3
  - white precipitate
- HBr + AgNO3 -> AgBr + HNO3
  - cream precipitate
- HI + AgNO3 -> AgI + HNO3
  - yellow precipitate
- write ionic equations for those 3:
  - $Cl^{-1} + Ag^{+} =AgCl$
  - $Br^{1-}+Ag^{+}=AgBr$
  - $I^{-1}+Ag^{+}=AgI$

## isolating the precipitates

- precipitate from a reaction can be separated from the mixture by filtration.

## solubility

### concentration of solubility in solution

- a **saturated** solution is one in which no more solute will dissolve at a given temperature.
- an **unsaturated** solution contains less solute than needed to make a saturated solution. Most solutions we use will be unsaturated.
- a **supersaturated** solution is an unstable solution, usually formed as a saturated solution cools down. If it is disturbed, it will **crystallise**, forming crystals of solute, and leaving a saturated solution.
- the mass of substance that will dissolve in 100 g of water at 25 deg celsius (we don t measure amount of substances) is the definition of so/lubility
- if the solubility of sodium chloride is 36g/100g water.
  gram/litre of solubility
  | chloride | volume of water (mL) | mass of chloride that dissolved (g) | g/L |
  | ---------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- |
  | $CuCl_{2}$ | 200 | 151 | 755 |
  | $MgCl_{2}$ | 150 | 80 | 533.3 |
  | $KCl$ | 100 | 30 | 300 |
  | $NaCl$ | 200 | 72 | 360 |
  | $ZnCl_{2}$ | 150 | 618 | 4120 |
  order of solubility
  ZnCl2 > CuCl2 > MgCl2 > NaCl > KCl

**32g** of potassium chloride out of 75mL of water at 50 degrees.

## supersaturated crystallisation

when solutions contain more solute than they would normally be able to dissolve, solutions are called **supersaturated**
crystallisation blah blah blahb ablah
