---
title: "T1W6L3"
---
#methods #lesson #AE #quadratics

# the quadratic formula
- there are methods for determining solutions to non-factorable quadratics, you can do it by using the quadratic formula. $$x=-b\pm \frac{\sqrt{ b^2-4ac }}{2a}$$
- quadratic formula is derived from solving the general formula for completing the square.
- y intercept at (0, c): (0, -3)
- x intercept at y =0:
	- $2x^2+4x-3=0$
	- $x=-4\pm \frac{\sqrt{ 4^2-4(2)(-3) }}{2(2)}$
	- $=-4\pm \frac{\sqrt{ 16+24 }}{4}$
	- $=-4\pm \frac{\sqrt{ 40 }}{4}$
	- $=-\frac{2\pm\sqrt{ 10 }}{2}$
	- $(\frac{-2-\sqrt{ 10 }}{2},0)$, $(0,\frac{-2\pm \sqrt{ 10 }}{2})$
# discriminant
- when solving quadratic equations, you can find either two, one or no real solutions.
- graphically these corresponds to the x-intercepts, where the function cross the x-axis (where y=0)
	- the number of solutions can be quickly identified by referring back to the quadratic formula.
	- if $b^2-4ac>0$, the square root is non-zero (two real solutions)
	- if $b^2-4ac=0$, the square root is zero (one real solution)
	- if $b^2-4ac<0$, the square root cannot be taken (no real solution)
	- $\Delta$ is the discriminant.
- consider the equation $x^2+18x+k+7=0$
	- a) find the values of k if the equation has no solution.
		- $18^2-4(1)(k+7)<0$
		- $324-4k-28<0$
		- $296-4k<0$
		- $296<4k$
		- $k>74$
	  - b) k = 75
  - consider the equation $2x^2-2x=x-1$
	  - $2x^2-3x+1=0$
	  - a) find the discriminant
		  - $-3^2 - 4(2)(1) = 9-8=1$
	  - b) $\Delta>0\implies$ 2 SOLS
  - the discriminant can also be used to check the nature of solutions. for a, b and c are rational numbers:
	  - if $\Delta$ is a perfect square, then there are 2 rational solutions.
	  - if $\Delta = 0$, then there is one rational solution.
	  - if $\Delta$ is not a perfect square and $\Delta >0$, then there are 2 irrational solutions.
	  - consider the equation $x^2+22x+120=0$
		  - a) find the value of the discriminant
			  - $22^2-4(1)(120)=484-480=4$
		  - b) using your answer from part a, determine whether the solutions to the equation are rational or irrational.
			  - irrational.